# 1105. Filling Bookcase Shelves
### medium

User Accepted: 418
User Tried: 733
Total Accepted: 423
Total Submissions: 1168
Difficulty: Medium
We have a sequence of books: the i-th book has thickness books[i][0] and height books[i][1].

We want to place these books in order onto bookcase shelves that have total width shelf_width.

We choose some of the books to place on this shelf (such that the sum of their thickness is <= shelf_width), then build another level of shelf of the bookcase so that the total height of the bookcase has increased by the maximum height of the books we just put down.  We repeat this process until there are no more books to place.

Note again that at each step of the above process, the order of the books we place is the same order as the given sequence of books.  For example, if we have an ordered list of 5 books, we might place the first and second book onto the first shelf, the third book on the second shelf, and the fourth and fifth book on the last shelf.

Return the minimum possible height that the total bookshelf can be after placing shelves in this manner.

 

Example 1:


Input: books = [[1,1],[2,3],[2,3],[1,1],[1,1],[1,1],[1,2]], shelf_width = 4
Output: 6
Explanation:
The sum of the heights of the 3 shelves are 1 + 3 + 2 = 6.
Notice that book number 2 does not have to be on the first shelf.
 

Constraints:

1 <= books.length <= 1000
1 <= books[i][0] <= shelf_width <= 1000
1 <= books[i][1] <= 1000

```python
class Solution1:
    # DFS
    def minHeightShelves(self, books: List[List[int]], w: int) -> int:
        self.res = float('inf')
        self.helper(0, [], books, w)
        return self.res
    def helper(self, ind, path, books, w):
        if ind == len(books):
            temp = 0
            for i, j in path:
                temp += j
            self.res = min(self.res, temp)
            return
        cur = books[ind]
        width = cur[0]
        height = cur[1]
        if not path:
            if width > w:
                return
            path.append([width, height])
            self.helper(ind+1, path, books, w)
        else:
            prev = path[-1]
            prevW = prev[0]
            prevH = prev[1]
            if prevW + width <= w:
                tempW = path[-1][0]
                tempH = path[-1][1]
                path[-1][0] = prevW + width
                path[-1][1] = max(path[-1][1], height)
                self.helper(ind+1, path, books, w)
                path[-1][0] = tempW
                path[-1][1] = tempH
            path.append([width, height])
            self.helper(ind+1, path, books, w)
            path.pop()

class Solution:
    # dp O n2 time O nb space
    # dp[i] = smallest height of first ith book
    # dp[i] = min(dp[i-1] + curH, min(dp[i-1]+max(h[i-1], curH), dp[i-2]+max(h[i-2], curH), ...))
    def minHeightShelves(self, books: List[List[int]], W: int) -> int:
        dp = [float('inf') for i in range(len(books)+1)]
        dp[0] = 0
        for i in range(1, len(books)+1):
            w = books[i-1][0]
            h = books[i-1][1]
            dp[i] = dp[i-1] + h
            for j in range(i-1, 0, -1):
                w += books[j-1][0]
                h = max(h, books[j-1][1])
                if w > W:
                    break
                dp[i] = min(dp[i], dp[j-1]+h)
        return dp[len(books)]
        
                
"""
[[1,1],[2,3],[2,3],[1,1],[1,1],[1,1],[1,2]]
4
"""
            
```