# 1130. Minimum Cost Tree From Leaf Values
### medium
Given an array arr of positive integers, consider all binary trees such that:

Each node has either 0 or 2 children;
The values of arr correspond to the values of each leaf in an in-order traversal of the tree.  (Recall that a node is a leaf if and only if it has 0 children.)
The value of each non-leaf node is equal to the product of the largest leaf value in its left and right subtree respectively.
Among all possible binary trees considered, return the smallest possible sum of the values of each non-leaf node.  It is guaranteed this sum fits into a 32-bit integer.

 

Example 1:

Input: arr = [6,2,4]
Output: 32
Explanation:
There are two possible trees.  The first has non-leaf node sum 36, and the second has non-leaf node sum 32.

    24            24
   /  \          /  \
  12   4        6    8
 /  \               / \
6    2             2   4
 

Constraints:

2 <= arr.length <= 40
1 <= arr[i] <= 15
It is guaranteed that the answer fits into a 32-bit signed integer (ie. it is less than 2^31).

```python
class Solution1:
    # TLE terrible solution
    # never create new sequence again
    def mctFromLeafValues(self, arr: List[int]) -> int:
        self.res = float('inf')
        self.visited = set()
        self.helper(0, arr)
        return self.res
    
    def helper(self, curRes, arr):
        if (curRes, tuple(arr)) in self.visited:
            return 
        self.visited.add((curRes, tuple(arr)))
        if len(arr) == 2:
            curRes += arr[0] * arr[1]
            self.res = min(self.res, curRes)
            return
        temp = curRes
        for i in range(1, len(arr)):
            curRes += arr[i-1] * arr[i]
            newArr = arr[:i-1] + [max(arr[i-1], arr[i])] + arr[i+1:]
            self.helper(curRes, newArr)
            curRes = temp
            
        
class Solution2:
    # O n^3 naive dp + memoization solution
    def mctFromLeafValues(self, arr: List[int]) -> int:
        self.memo = collections.defaultdict(int)
        return self.helper(0, len(arr), arr)
    def helper(self, i, j, arr):
        if (i, j) in self.memo:
            return self.memo[(i, j)]
        if i == j or i + 1 == j:
            return 0
        res = float('inf')
        for k in range(i+1, j):
            res = min(res, self.helper(i, k, arr) + self.helper(k, j, arr) + max(arr[i:k]) * max(arr[k:j]))
        self.memo[(i, j)] = res
        return res

class Solution:
    # O n time O n space
    # monotonic stack
    # for a small value in the list, we compare it with the left or right, pick the smaller one, get their product and add to res
    # then we simply remove the small node and leave the big one. In the end, we have two max num in the list, whose product is the root of the tree. 
    # It's like calculating the cost of removing a val. if we want to remove a from a, b. the cost is a * b. We would like to minimize the total cost
    def mctFromLeafValues(self, arr: List[int]) -> int:    
        stack = [float('inf')] # In case there is an empty situation
        res = 0
        for num in arr:
            while num > stack[-1]: # it's not decreasing val
                toRemove = stack.pop() # toRemove is the current smallest node sorted by monotonic stack
                res += toRemove * min(stack[-1], num) # when it comes to inf, the num will always win.
            stack.append(num)
        while len(stack) > 2:
            res += stack.pop() * stack[-1] # it's a decreasing sequence here. Just do it reversely.
        return res
        
```