# 1153. String Transforms Into Another String
### hard
Given two strings str1 and str2 of the same length, determine whether you can transform str1 into str2 by doing zero or more conversions.

In one conversion you can convert all occurrences of one character in str1 to any other lowercase English character.

Return true if and only if you can transform str1 into str2.

 

Example 1:

Input: str1 = "aabcc", str2 = "ccdee"
Output: true
Explanation: Convert 'c' to 'e' then 'b' to 'd' then 'a' to 'c'. Note that the order of conversions matter.
Example 2:

Input: str1 = "leetcode", str2 = "codeleet"
Output: false
Explanation: There is no way to transform str1 to str2.
 

Note:

1 <= str1.length == str2.length <= 10^4
Both str1 and str2 contain only lowercase English letters.



```python
class Solution:
    # If we have c11 -> c21, and c11 -> c22, we can just say this is impossible to convert
    # If we have c11 -> c21, and c21 -> c11, conflictions happens. if we change c11 to c21, then we have 2 c21 at the same time
    # And we are going to mess the 2 mappings if we chagne c21. For this case, we can use a unused placeholder for this
    # first map c11 -> temp, then map c21 to c11, then map temp to c21. And this would work
    # If we have 26 chars in the str2, that means we dont have any place holder, return false
    # If we have more than 1 placeholder needed, and we only have 1 slot available in s2, it also works
    # c11 -> c21, c21 -> c11, c12 -> c22, c22 -> c12, 
    # c11 -> temp, c21 -> c11, temp -> c21, c12 -> temp, c22 -> c12, temp -> c12.
    def canConvert(self, str1, str2):
        if str1 == str2:
            return True
        dp = {}
        for c1, c2 in zip(str1, str2):
            if c1 in dp and dp[c1] != c2:
                    return False
            dp[c1] = c2
        return len(set(str2)) < 26
```