# 975. Odd Even Jump
### hard
You are given an integer array A.  From some starting index, you can make a series of jumps.  The (1st, 3rd, 5th, ...) jumps in the series are called odd numbered jumps, and the (2nd, 4th, 6th, ...) jumps in the series are called even numbered jumps.

You may from index i jump forward to index j (with i < j) in the following way:

During odd numbered jumps (ie. jumps 1, 3, 5, ...), you jump to the index j such that A[i] <= A[j] and A[j] is the smallest possible value.  If there are multiple such indexes j, you can only jump to the smallest such index j.
During even numbered jumps (ie. jumps 2, 4, 6, ...), you jump to the index j such that A[i] >= A[j] and A[j] is the largest possible value.  If there are multiple such indexes j, you can only jump to the smallest such index j.
(It may be the case that for some index i, there are no legal jumps.)
A starting index is good if, starting from that index, you can reach the end of the array (index A.length - 1) by jumping some number of times (possibly 0 or more than once.)

Return the number of good starting indexes.

 

Example 1:

Input: [10,13,12,14,15]
Output: 2
Explanation: 
From starting index i = 0, we can jump to i = 2 (since A[2] is the smallest among A[1], A[2], A[3], A[4] that is greater or equal to A[0]), then we can't jump any more.
From starting index i = 1 and i = 2, we can jump to i = 3, then we can't jump any more.
From starting index i = 3, we can jump to i = 4, so we've reached the end.
From starting index i = 4, we've reached the end already.
In total, there are 2 different starting indexes (i = 3, i = 4) where we can reach the end with some number of jumps.
Example 2:

Input: [2,3,1,1,4]
Output: 3
Explanation: 
From starting index i = 0, we make jumps to i = 1, i = 2, i = 3:

During our 1st jump (odd numbered), we first jump to i = 1 because A[1] is the smallest value in (A[1], A[2], A[3], A[4]) that is greater than or equal to A[0].

During our 2nd jump (even numbered), we jump from i = 1 to i = 2 because A[2] is the largest value in (A[2], A[3], A[4]) that is less than or equal to A[1].  A[3] is also the largest value, but 2 is a smaller index, so we can only jump to i = 2 and not i = 3.

During our 3rd jump (odd numbered), we jump from i = 2 to i = 3 because A[3] is the smallest value in (A[3], A[4]) that is greater than or equal to A[2].

We can't jump from i = 3 to i = 4, so the starting index i = 0 is not good.

In a similar manner, we can deduce that:
From starting index i = 1, we jump to i = 4, so we reach the end.
From starting index i = 2, we jump to i = 3, and then we can't jump anymore.
From starting index i = 3, we jump to i = 4, so we reach the end.
From starting index i = 4, we are already at the end.
In total, there are 3 different starting indexes (i = 1, i = 3, i = 4) where we can reach the end with some number of jumps.
Example 3:

Input: [5,1,3,4,2]
Output: 3
Explanation: 
We can reach the end from starting indexes 1, 2, and 4.
 

Note:

1 <= A.length <= 20000
0 <= A[i] < 100000
```python
class Solution1:
    # Naive DP TLE
    # Need to optimize getOdd and getEven
    # O n2 time O n space
    def oddEvenJumps(self, A: List[int]) -> int:
        dp = [(False, False) for _ in range(len(A))]
        dp[len(A)-1] = (True, True)
        res = 1
        for i in range(len(A)-2, -1, -1):
            odd = self.getOdd(A, i)
            even = self.getEven(A, i)
            curOdd = dp[odd][1] if odd != -1 else False
            curEven = dp[even][0] if even != -1 else False
            if curOdd:
                res += 1
            dp[i] = (curOdd, curEven)
        return res
    def getOdd(self, A, i):
        maxInd = -1
        maxVal = float('inf')
        for j in range(i+1, len(A)):
            if A[j] >= A[i] and A[j] < maxVal:
                maxInd = j
                maxVal = A[j]
        return maxInd
    def getEven(self, A, i):
        minInd = -1
        minVal = float('-inf')
        for j in range(i+1, len(A)):
            if A[j] <= A[i] and A[j] > minVal:
                minInd = j
                minVal = A[j]
        return minInd   
    
class Solution:
    # Monotonic Stack
    # O nlogn time O n space
    # Optimized the process of searching next odd and next even
    # i from n-2 to 0, dp(i, odd) = dp(nextOdd(i), even), dp(i, even) = dp(nextEven(i), odd)
    # res = sum(dp(i,odd))
    def oddEvenJumps(self, A: List[int]) -> int:
        # Get the ind sorted by val
        inds = sorted(range(len(A)), key = lambda x: A[x])
        oddNext = self.helper(inds)
        # Here we cannot just reverse inds, since there might be duplicate values
        # We don't want to change the relative order of indexes
        inds.sort(key = lambda x: -A[x])
        evenNext = self.helper(inds)
        
        # Here we init the dp here. the odd res depends on last even res, vice versa
        # Only the odd res contributes to the overall res
        odds = [False for _ in range(len(A))]
        evens = [False for _ in range(len(A))]
        odds[len(A)-1] = True
        evens[len(A)-1] = True
        res = 1
        for i in range(len(A)-2, -1, -1):
            if oddNext[i]:
                odds[i] = evens[oddNext[i]]
            if evenNext[i]:
                evens[i] = odds[evenNext[i]]
            if odds[i]:
                res += 1
        return res
    
    def helper(self, inds):
        """
        Given an array of inds, we fill the next biggest index to each index
        Since the stack can keep the elements in descending order
        every time we find the item that's bigger, that means it's the first item bigger than previous res
        If there's still item remained, that means these items don't have next bigger item
        """
        res = [None for _ in inds]
        stack = []
        for i in inds:
            while stack and i > stack[-1]:
                res[stack.pop()] = i
            stack.append(i)
        return res
```

```Java
class Solution {
    // TreeMap solution
    // O nlogn time O n space
    // Since we always add item to map from the tail of the array
    // that means the next greater of smaller item always goes after the cur item
    // if we have the same item twice, we copy the closest same item
    // at last we update the current map
    public int oddEvenJumps(int[] A) {
        int n = A.length;
        boolean[] odds = new boolean[n];
        boolean[] evens = new boolean[n];
        odds[n-1] = true;
        evens[n-1] = true;
        int res = 1;
        
        //init treeMap
        TreeMap<Integer, Integer> map = new TreeMap<>();
        map.put(A[n-1], n-1);
        for (int i = n-2; i >= 0; i--) {
            int cur = A[i];
            if (map.containsKey(cur)) {
                odds[i] = evens[map.get(cur)];
                evens[i] = odds[map.get(cur)];
            } else {
                Integer nextOdd = map.higherKey(cur);
                Integer nextEven = map.lowerKey(cur);
                if (nextEven != null) evens[i] = odds[map.get(nextEven)];
                if (nextOdd != null) odds[i] = evens[map.get(nextOdd)];
            }
            if (odds[i]) res++;
            map.put(cur, i);
        }
        return res;
    }
}
```